# Bus-Assist-app
Idea proposal

BUS ASSIST APP

Abstract:
Buses are always crowded, especially in megacities. We wait a long time to board the bus (Public buses) at the bus stops, and often we would not get the seats on the bus, or the buses would be overcrowded, or we have to wait for another bus. We do not know the availability of seats on the public buses and the crowdedness in the buses until they reach the bus stop. Similarly, we do not know the live location of the buses while in service. Think about this, how it would be when we know about the availability of seats in the public buses even before the buses reach the bus stop where we usually board and also the crowdedness stats, the live location of the bus while it is in the service, all in one App. So we have proposed a system (Bus Assist) with AI IP Cameras fixed at the bus's entrance or exit (inside the bus). The number of boarded and deboarded passengers is counted using AI IP Cameras, and that data is linked to (Bus Assist App) to display the number of passengers on and off the bus. The Bus GPS is also linked to the Bus Assist App, which is used for live monitoring bus routes where it will show the live location of the bus, whether it is stationed or moving. Next, the user can input their source and destination bus stops in the Bus Assist App to get the desired route. Following stops and bus fares will be generated in the App based on the source, and destination bus stops. The App is connected to the designated bus server and displays the count of passengers inside the bus (seated and standing passengers). Based on these statistics (the number of people seated, number of seats available, and number of people standing), the user can decide whether to board the bus or wait for the next bus. Depending on ticket sales record (keeps track of destination), the App counts the number of people who have to get down at which stop, and this will also be displayed in the App and digitally displayed inside the bus. Suppose two people have the same destination and are deboarding; the display on the bus must show (two of them are getting down at this stop, so two seats are accessible now). Now our AI IP cameras will detect if there are two-person left on the bus and prompt it in the App and digital display on the bus. By using this App, users can plan their travel accordingly and save time by avoiding waiting for a long time at the bus stops.

Authors: 
